36 THE Tuum: PRONUNCIATIONS oF LATIN.

the best native speakers of Latin differed among them-
selves in theory and practice, but labored harmoniously
and to the end to come nearer to the ideal pronuncia-
tion, so there is no ground for discouragement or for
detraction‚ if those who would restore the ancient pro-
nunciation still differ in many points, and perhaps in
all points fall below the true standard.

The preceding para'graphs have been employed in
substance by Roman Latinists‚ to show that their dif-
ferences were not so much to be wondered at, because
the Romans themselves differed in some important par-
ticulars. The meaning is not that Caesar, Cicero, and
others did not understand how to pronounce their
vernacular‚ but the meaning is that the differences
among the Romans tlieinselveS‚ even among their most
learned men, make it very difficult for people in our
day to find out what the true pronunciation was on the
part of any of them. No scholars are more aware of
the state of facts under consideration than many of
those who have written in favor of the so-callecl Roman
method.

WVhen Latinists, who insist on the reformed system,
differ among themselves on so many points, both in
theory and practice, and justify their clifferences by
asserting that the Latins differed among themselves, a
thing admitted, the question may be gravely asked
whether or not Corssen, Roby‚ and others have really
ever resurrected the ancient pronunciation at all. At
any rate, does not such a condition of things somewhat
palliate the offence of those who still prefer to employ
what may be termed an “old-fashioned” ancl settled
pronunciation? Further‚ Brambach's testimony, Just
under this head, is invaluablez—

